Metadata-Version: 2.1
Name: route_optimizer
Version: 1.0
Summary: A GUI-based application for optimizing travel routes using evolutionary algorithms.
Home-page: 
Author: Your Name
Author-email: your_email@example.com
Requires-Python: >=3.7
Description-Content-Type: text/markdown
Requires-Dist: ttkbootstrap
Requires-Dist: matplotlib
Requires-Dist: geopy
Requires-Dist: numpy
Requires-Dist: pandas
Requires-Dist: setuptools

TarjanPlanner
TarjanPlanner is an intelligent route optimization application designed to solve the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) with custom optimization criteria, such as minimizing time, cost, or the number of transfers. The application allows users to visualize optimal routes and interact with a user-friendly Graphical User Interface (GUI). It is particularly useful for planning travel routes between multiple locations efficiently.

Features
Optimization Criteria: Choose between minimizing travel time, cost, or transfers.
Dynamic Visualization: Displays routes on a graph with detailed segment information.
Transport Modes: Supports various transport modes (walking, bicycle, bus, and train) with associated speeds and costs.
Interactive GUI: User-friendly interface with tooltips for inputs, and the ability to save visualizations.
Customizable Parameters: Adjust population size and generations for evolutionary optimization.
Detailed Output: Provides a summary of total time, total cost, and the sequence of routes.
Save Graphs: Save route visualizations as image files for later reference.
Installation
Prerequisites
Python 3.8 or higher
Required Python packages:
ttkbootstrap
matplotlib
geopy
numpy
pandas
Steps
Clone the repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/your-username/TarjanPlanner.git
cd TarjanPlanner
Install the dependencies:

bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
Install the package:

bash
Copy code
pip install .
Usage
Running the Application
After installation, you can start the application using the command:

bash
Copy code
tarjan_planner
Alternatively, you can run the program in development mode using:

bash
Copy code
python main.py
Modes
Command Line Interface (CLI):

Choose CLI mode by entering 1 when prompted.
Follow the interactive prompts to input optimization criteria, population size, and generations.
Graphical User Interface (GUI):

Choose GUI mode by entering 2 when prompted.
Use the intuitive interface to select optimization criteria, adjust parameters, and visualize results.
GUI Overview
Input Section: Select optimization criteria (time, cost, or transfers) and specify population size and generations.
Results Table: Displays detailed segment information, including start and end locations, transport modes, and distances.
Graph Visualization:
Visualizes the optimal route with arrows indicating direction.
Displays the summary of total time and cost in the top-right corner.
Color-coded transport modes:
Green: Walking
Yellow: Bicycle
Blue: Bus
Red: Train
Example
CLI Example
bash
Copy code
Select Mode:
1. CLI (Command Line Interface)
2. GUI (Graphical User Interface)
Enter the number corresponding to your choice: 1

Welcome to the Route Optimizer CLI!
Enter optimization criteria (time/cost/transfers): cost
Enter population size (e.g., 50): 100
Enter number of generations (e.g., 200): 300

--- Optimal Route Summary ---
Optimal Route: Relative_1 (bus) -> Relative_4 (bicycle) -> Relative_3 (train)
Total Time: 1.56 hours
Total Cost: 45.67 USD
GUI Example
Launch the GUI mode:
bash
Copy code
tarjan_planner
Input optimization criteria (e.g., time) and parameters (e.g., population size = 50, generations = 200).
Click Run Optimizer to display the optimal route and its visualization.
Project Structure
graphql
Copy code
TarjanPlanner/
├── gui_main.py              # GUI implementation for the Route Optimizer
├── main.py                  # Main script for CLI and GUI entry points
├── evolutionary_optimizer.py # Evolutionary algorithm logic
├── route_visualizer.py      # Visualization logic for route plotting
├── relatives_data.py        # Relatives' data and transport modes
├── README.md                # Project description and documentation
├── setup.py                 # Setup script for packaging and installation
├── requirements.txt         # Dependencies list
└── tests/                   # Unit tests
Future Enhancements
Add real-time traffic data integration.
Support for additional transport modes and costs.
Export route details to a PDF or CSV file.
Multi-language support in the GUI.
Contributing
We welcome contributions to enhance TarjanPlanner. Feel free to fork this repository, make your changes, and submit a pull request.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Contact
For questions, suggestions, or bug reports, please contact:

Author: Vaskar Shrestha
Email: vashr0444@oslomet.no
